1.Remember that these 50 essays are very popular and have been around for a verylong time (probably even before you were born!). Therefore, the admission officersare VERY familiar with them. Again, do NOT copy or imitate anything from theseessays if you want to succeed. Formation of Self Before even touching the camera, I made a list of some of the photographs I wouldtake: web covered with water, grimace reflected in the calculator screen, handholding a tiny round mirror where just my eye is visible, cat’s striped underbelly ashe jumps toward the lens, manhole covers, hand holding a translucent section oforange, pinkies partaking of a pinkie swear, midsection with jeans, hair held outsideways at arm’s length, bottom of foot, soap on face. This, I think is akin to aformation of self. Perhaps I have had the revelations even if the photos are nevertaken.I already know the dual strains the biographers will talk about, strains twistingthrough a life. The combination is embodied here: I write joyfully, in the margin ofmy lab book, beside a diagram of a beaker, “Isolated it today, Beautiful wispystrands, spider webs suspended below the surface, delicate tendrils, cloudy white,lyrical, elegant DNA! This is DNA! So beautiful!”I should have been a Renaissance man. It kills me to choose a field (to choosebetween the sciences and the humanities!). My mind roams, I wide-eyed, intoinfinite caverns and loops. I should fly! Let me devour the air, dissolve everythinginto my bloodstream, learn!The elements are boundless, but, if asked to isolate them, I can see tangles aroundmedicine and writing. The trick will be to integrate them into a whole, and thenmaybe I can take the photograph. Aahh, is it already there, no? Can’t you see it? Iinvoke the Daedalus in me, everything that has gone into making me, hoping it willbe my liberation.Music is one such element. The experience of plying in an orchestra from the insideis an investigation into subjectivity. It is reminiscent of Heisenberg’s uncertaintyprinciple: the more one knows the speed of a particle, the less one knows itsposition. Namely the position of the observer matters and affects the substance ofthe observation; even science is embracing embodiment. I see splashes of bright Plagiarism is severely punished!
2.!rain in violin arpeggios fading away in singed circles, a clarinet solo fades blue toblack, and a flute harmony leaves us moving sideways, a pregnant silence, thetrumpets interrupt with the smell of lightning. Perhaps in the audience you wouldsense something else.I think of rowing as meditation. Pshoow, huh, aaah; pshoow, huh, aaah. I can closemy eyes and still hear it. We glide over reflected sky… and lean. And defy the requestfor “leadership positions,” laugh at it, because it misses the entire point, that we areintegral, one organism. I hear the oars cut the water, shunk shunk; there are noleaders.Once I heard an echo from all quarters. “Do not rush,” said the conductor, “follow thebaton.” “Do not rush,” said the coach, “watch the body in front of you.” Do not rush.I write about characters’ words: how they use words, how they manipulate them,how they create their own realities; words used dangerously, flippantly, talking atcross purposes, deliberately being vague; the nature of talking, of words andrealities. Perhaps mine has been a flight of fancy too. But, come on, it’s in the words,a person, a locus, somewhere in the words. It’s all words. I love the words.I should be a writer, but I will be a doctor, and out of the philosophical tension I willcreate a self.ANALYSISThis essay is a good example of an essay that shows rather than tells the reader whothe author is. Through excited language and illustrative anecdotes, she offers acomplex picture of her multifaceted nature.The writing is as fluid as its subject matter. One paragraph runs into the next withlittle break for transition or explicit connection. It has the feel of an ecstaticstream-of-consciousness, moving rapidly toward a climactic end.The author is as immediate as she is mysterious. She creates and intimaterelationship with her reader, while continuously keeping him/her “in the dark” as shejumps from one mental twist to another.She openly exposes her charged thoughts, yet leaves the ties between themuncemented. This creates an unpredictability that is risky but effective.Still, one ought to be wary in presenting as essay of this sort. The potential forobliqueness is high, and, even here, the reader is at times left in confusionregarding the coherence of the whole. Granted the essay is about confluence ofseeming opposites, but poetic license should not obscure important content. Thisparticular essay could have been made stronger with a more explicit recurringtheme to help keep the reader focused.In general, though, this essay stands out as a bold, impassioned presentation of self.It lingers in the memory as an entangled web of an intricate mind. Plagiarism is severely punished!
3. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!“Growing Up”“Growing Up”I’m short. I’m five foot five – well, five foot six if I want to impress someone. If theaverage height of American men is five foot ten, that means I’m nearly half a footshorter than the average Joe out there. And then there are the basketball players.My height has always been something that’s set me apart; it’s helped define me. It’sjust that as long as I can remember, I haven’t liked the definition very much. EverySunday in grade school my dad and I would watch ESPN Primetime Football. Playingwith friends at home, I always imagined the booming ESPN voice of Chris Bermangiving the play-by-play of our street football games. But no matter how well Iperformed at home with friends, during school recess the stigma of “short kid” stuckwith me while choosing teams.Still concerned as senior year rolled along, I visited a growth specialist. Pacing theexam room in a shaky, elliptical orbit worried, “What if I’ve stopped growing? Willmy social status forever be marked by my shortness?” In a grade school dream, Iimagined Chris “ESPN” Berman’s voice as he analyzed the fantastic catch I hadmade for a touchdown when – with a start – the doctor strode in. damp with nervoussweat, I sat quietly with my mom as he showed us the X-ray taken of my hand. Thebones in my seventeen-year-old body had matured. I would not grow any more.Whoa. I clenched the steering wheel in frustration as I drove home. What good weremy grades and “college transcript” achievements when even my friends poked funof the short kid? What good was it to pray, or to genuinely live a life of love? Nomatter how many Taekwondo medals I had won, could I ever be considered trulyathletic in a wiry, five foot five frame? I could be dark and handsome, but could Iever be the “tall” in “tall, dark and handsome”? All I wanted was someone special tolook up into my eyes; all I wanted was someone to ask, “Could you reach that forme?”It’s been hard to deal with. I haven’t answered all those questions, but I havelearned that height isn’t all it’s made out to be. I ‘d rather be a shorter,compassionate person than a tall tyrant. I can be a giant in so many other ways:intellectually, spiritually and emotionally.I’ve ironically grown taller from being short. It’s enriched my life. Being short hascertainly had its advantages. During elementary school in earthquake-proneCalifornia for example, my teachers constantly praised my “duck and cover” skills.The school budget was tight and the desks were so small an occasional limb couldalways be seen sticking out. Yet Chris Shim, “blessed” in height, always managed tosqueeze himself into a compact and safe fetal position. The same quality has paid offin hide-and-go-seek. (I’m the unofficial champion on my block.)Lincoln once debated with Senator Stephen A. Douglas – a magnificent orator,nationally recognized as the leader of the Democratic Party of 1858… and barely fivefeet four inches tall. It seems silly, but standing on the floor of the Senate last yearI remembered Senator Douglas and imagined that I would one day debate with a Plagiarism is severely punished!
4. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!future president. (It helped to have a tall, lanky, bearded man with a stove-top hattalk with me that afternoon.) But I could just as easily become an astronaut, if notfor my childlike, gaping-mouth-eyes-straining wonderment of the stars, thenmaybe in the hope of growing a few inches (the spine spontaneously expands in theabsence of gravity).Even at five feet, six inches, the actor Dustin Hoffman held his own against TomeCruise in the movie Rainman and went on to win his second Academy Award for BestActor. Michael J. Fox (5’5”) constantly uses taller actors to his comedic advantage.Height has enhanced the athleticism of “Muggsy” Bogues, the shortest player in thehistory of the NBA at five foot three. He’s used that edge to lead his basketball teamin steals (they don’t call him “Muggsy” for nothing). Their height has put no limits totheir work in the arts or athletics. Neither will mine.I’m five foot five. I’ve struggled with it at times, but I’ve realized that being five-fivecan’t stop me from joining the Senate. It won’t stem my dream of becoming anastronaut (I even have the application from NASA). My height can’t prevent mefrom directing a movie and excelling in Taekwondo (or even basketball). At five footfive I can laugh, jump, run, dance, write, paint, help, volunteer, pray, love and cry.I can break 100 in bowling. I can sing along to Nat King Cole. I can recite AudreyHepburn’s lines from Breakfast at Tiffany’s. I can run the mile in under six minutes,dance like a wild monkey and be hopelessly wrapped up in a good book (though Ihave yet to master the ability to do it all at once). I’ve learned that my height, evenas a defining characteristic, is only a part of the whole. It won’t limit me. Besides,this way I’ll never outgrow my favorite sweater.ANALYSIS“Growing Up” follows the form of discussing a physical or character trait, andexploring its impact on one’s life. Shim’s strategy is for the reader to understand hisfrustrations with his height, a physical characteristic that has played a great role inthe way he sees himself among his family, friends, and peers.This piece works because it is to the point, honest, and straight-forward. Theopening, “I’m short,” delivers a clear message to the reader of the essay’s main idea.As the essay progresses, Shim reveals his personal feelings and aspirations. Hegives us a window into the very moment of discovery that he would no longer beable to grow. We are taken on a tour of what makes Shim tick. Being short hasshaped and influenced his outlook on the world, yet it has not diminished his goals.It is personal, yet remains positive. He recognizes both the benefits and negatives ofhis short stature and is able to convey them in a thoughtful manner. Furthermore,the essay not only lets us into Shim’s thoughts on being small but tells us his variedinterests in politics, space exploration, sports, and the arts. Shim hasn’t just told ushow his height “doesn’t limit him” he has shown us why. Plagiarism is severely punished!
5. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!“Pieces of Me”“Pieces of Me”----Sandra E. PullmanThe black and white composition book is faded, and the corners are bent. It doesn’tlie flat as many paper clips mark favorite places. Almost every sheet is covered withwriting – some in bold handwriting hardly revised, others uncertainly jotted downcompletely marked up and rewritten. Flipping through the thin pages, I smile,remembering from careless thoughts to assassinate prose to precisely wordedpoems, this journal marks a year of my life as a writer.In junior year, my English teacher asked us to keep a journal for creative writing, asa release from otherwise stressful days. We were free to write on any topic we chose.From then on as often as I could, I would steal away to the old wooden rocking chairin the corner of my room and take time off to write.As I now try to answer the question of who am I for this essay, I immediately thinkof my journal.I am a writer.My writing is the most intensely personal part of me. I pour my heart out into myjournal and am incredibly protective of it. It’s difficult for me to handle criticism orchange rejection:I can tell he wouldn’t read it right wouldn’t let the meaning sink into him slow anddelicious it would sound awful through his careless eyes I want him to open himselfup to it and let in a piece of me I want him to know this side of me no one ever hasI want him to be the one to understand let me see he prods once more I tell myselfthis time I’ll do it I let myself go but as it passes into his rough hands I see it for thefirst time it’s awkward and wrong just like me I snatch it back from him and crumbleit it falls with hardly a noise into the trashI am a child.Growing up, I would always ride my bike over to the elementary school across thestreet and into the woods behind it. Crab apple trees scented the fall air and thewinding dirt paths went on forever. I’d drop my bike at the base of a tree and climbas high as I could. All afternoon I would sit in these trees whose branches curved outa seat seemingly made just for me.One day I biked across the street to come face to face with construction trucks.Those woods are now a parking lot. I cry every time I see cars parked where my crabapple trees once stood:He allowed the sweet sadness to lingerAs he contemplated a world Plagiarism is severely punished!
6. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!That he knew too much about.I am a daughter, a cousin, a great-niece.My family is very important to me. My mother has a huge extended family and we allget together once a year for a reunion. I play with my little cousins and toss them inthe air to their squealing delight. Many of my relatives are elderly, however, and Ifind it hard to deal with serious illness in these people I love. I am also deathly afraidof growing old and losing all sense of myself. When visiting relatives, I have to cometo terms with these feelings:With the toe of my sneaker, I push at the ancient pale yellow carpet. Like all theitems in the apartment, it is way past its prime. It is matted down in most places,pressed into the floor from years of people’s shoes traversing back and forth. It willnever be as nice as it once was, that much is certain. At home it would be pulled up,thrown out, not tolerated in an ever-moving young family, not fitting in with all theuseful, modern surroundings. But here, in this foreign, musty apartment where mygreat-aunt and uncle have lived so long that they seem to blend right into the fadedwallpaper, the carpet is a part of the scenery. It could not be removed any more thanthe floor itself.I am a friend.I will always treasure memories of sleep-away camp and the friends I fell in lovewith there. Many of these people I have managed to keep in touch with, but I regretthat some I have lost:But now… the weather is changing. A cold front has moved in. the picture is barelynoticed. Perhaps other pictures of other memories brighter and newer hide it fromview. A cool breeze steals in through the open window, and the careless wind knocksdown an old picture from the bulletin board. The picture falls in slow motion, takingwith it a far-off memory. It comes to rest behind the desk, lying on the floor, neverto be seen again. Its absence is not even noticed.I am an incurable romantic.Leaving a party one night, I forgot to return the sweatshirt I had borrowed:Touching the small holeIn the bottom cornerAnd the stray threadUnraveling the sleeveI lift it upAnd breathe in its smellI smile quietlyIt smells like himI am a dreamer.I often sit in class and let my imagination take me wherever I want to go. I love toread stories of mythic Camelot or the legendary Old South, losing myself in my Plagiarism is severely punished!
7. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!favorite books:The three dimensionalKaleidoscope fantasyOf far-off landsAnd courtly kingdomsOf passion and romanceAnd high seas adventureIs shining with vivid colorsAnd singing with non-stop noiseMy journal from eleventh grade not only chronicles a year of my life, but it tells thestory of who I am. It is the closest I can get to even beginning to answer that difficultquestion:Tell them she says just tell them who you are let them know what makes you ticktick tick the clock is counting down I can’t wait to get out of here just a far moreminutes smile and pretend you care tell them who I am in 358 words double-spaced12 point font as if I even know as if I could even if I did on a single sheet of paperwhy I cry why I laugh why I want so badly to go to their lovely schoolI guess I do know one thing about who I am.I am a writer.ANALYSIS“Pieces of Me” is an admissions essay with attitude – a personal statement thattakes a risk.Like many college applicants, Pullman is interested in writing. Her essay standsapart form the pack because she doesn’t simply tell the admissions officer she likesto write. Instead, when used excerpts from her journal to show the admissionsofficer how much she loves to write, how much she depends on her writing to helpher explain and understand life.But Pullman’s decision to include creative writing – i.e. cummings style – in herpersonal statement is not a decision for the meek of heart or the semi-talented.Every high school senior has heard stories of college applicants who, in the quest tostand out among the hundreds of other essays an admissions officer must sortthrough, submitted an original screenplay, musical composition, or videotape of aninterpretive dance as their personal statement. In cases like Pullman’s where realtalent show through, those risks may pay off. For others, a more conventional piecewith a strong, clear thesis and well-written supporting arguments may be the betterroad to take.Of course, no piece is perfect, including Pullman’s. As original as many of her journalexcerpts may be, Pullman prefaces many of them with somewhat cliché transitions Plagiarism is severely punished!
8. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!which weaken the underlying premise of the piece – that Pullman’s unique writinghelp articulate her unique personality. Her creative writing is exciting andinteresting; her more academic writing is less so.Still, “Pieces of Me” is a risky endeavor that works. Pullman succeeds, without theuse of a 3-D visual aid or live performance, in making her application stand out.“Who Am I?”“Who Am I?”--by Michael ChoI wish I could write about the Michael Cho who stars in my Walter Mitty-like fantasies.If only my personal statement could consist of my name followed by such terms asOlympic athlete, master chef, boy genius, universal best friend, and PrinceCharming to every hopeful woman. These claims would be, at worst, outright lies, orat best, gross hyperbole. My dreams, however, take their place alongside mymemories, experiences, and genes in the palette that constitutes who I am.Who am I? I am a product of my reality and my imagination. I am innately depraved,yet I am made perfect. I plan my day with the knowledge that “Everything ismeaningless” (Ecclesiastes 1:2), but I must “make the most of every opportunity”(Colossians 4:5). I search for simple answers, but find only complex questions.Once, on my way to a wrestling tournament, I was so engulfed in thought overwhether living in an abode which rotated near the speed of light would result in mybeing younger (utilizing the Theory of Relativity) and stronger (utilizing theproperties of adaptation along with the definition of centripetal and gravitationalforce) that I failed to realize that I had left my wrestling shoes in my locker. Mymother says that my decision to wrestle is indicative of the fact I don’t think.Through working in a nursing home, the most important lesson I’ve learned is thatI have many lessons yet to learn. Thus the most valuable knowledge I possessreminds me how little knowledge I have.Often times people make the mistake of assuming that mutually exclusive qualitiesbear no relationship to one another. Not so! These dichotomies continuouslyredefine each other. In some cases one is totally dependent on the other’s existence.What is faith without doubt? Without one, the other does not exit. When juxtaposed,opposites create a dialectic utterly more profound and beautiful than its parts. WaltWhitman embraces this syncretism by stating, “Do I contradict myself? Very wellthen I contradict myself, (I am large, I contain multitudes).” My qualities, thoughcontradictory, define who I am.Although I can’t make fantastic claims about myself, I must still acknowledge andcherish the dreams that I have. Admittedly, it is tragic when one is so absorbed infantasy that he loses touch with reality. But it is equally tragic when one is so Plagiarism is severely punished!
9. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!absorbed in reality that ho loses the ability to dream. When a healthy amount ofreality and fantasy are synthesized, the synergy is such that something beautifulwill undoubtedly result.ANALYSISThis applicant addresses the proverbial question of “Who Am I?” In doing so, heexpresses, both implicitly and explicitly, his hobbies, extracurricular activities, andoutlook on life. The writer not only reveals his participation in wrestling, work at anursing home, and knowledge of Quantum Mchanics, but he also exposes the readerto many aspects of his personality and inner thoughts on life. His questioning of themeaning of life and evaluation of his own identity reveal an inquisitive side to hispersonality.Overall, this essay is well written and easy to read. The introduction is strong in thatthe applicant levels with admission officer by admitting he does not consider himselfto be a spectacular individual, giving the impression that what follows is writtenhonestly. Another storng point of the essay is that it reveals many of the activities inwhich the writer is involved. This serves to give the admissions officer a morepersonalized picture of the applicant. The biblical and Walt Whitman quotations arevery well used and demonstrate the strong intellect of the writer.While the essay does provide some insight into the philosophical thoughts of theapplicant, in many ways it is too theoretical. The writer could improve the essay byspecifically listing the dreams or goals he cherishes or perhaps by writing in moredetail about one of the many experiences he mentions in the statement. The flow ofthe essay is also hindered in a number of ways. First, the word choice seems slightlyunnatural – almost as if the applicant relied on a thesaurus when writing the essay;as a result, the tone seems to be a bit contrived. Second, while the overall theme ofself-identification is maintained throughout the essay, the individual paragraphsjump from one topic to the next in a disjointed fashion. For example, it is interestingto know that the applicant worked at a nursing home, but mentioning such does notseem to fit with the overall progression of the essay. It is important that the personalstatement convey to the admissions officer a sense of who you are and what you arelike in person, but it is not necessary to cram every extracurricular activity oraccomplishment into the essay; there are other sections of the application for listingsuch things. Plagiarism is severely punished!
10. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!An Incomplete StoryAn Incomplete StoryDuring the Middle Ages, a ritual existed which dictated how an individual introducedhimself or herself. This introductory process was threefold: first, it demanded thatthe individual’s religion be named; next, the individual’s town or community wasstated; and finally, the family name was said. Even today, this method ofintroduction can be effective in conveying the character or identity of an individual.If I were top introduce myself, I would simply state that I am a scholar (learning ismy religion); I am a contributor to the greater well-being of my community; and myfamily will be determined by my future plans and goals (since family includes, but isnot limited, to blood relations).While my gender is extremely important to me, I first identify myself as a scholarbecause intellect does not have a sex. Knowledge transcends gender. Therefore, Iam a thinker, a learner, and a scholar. To me, the process of learning is religious.Words are my “bible,” teachers are my “priests.” I respect and revere words likeothers respect, revere, and fear the idea of God. I understand that words are aliveand I must wrestle them down and tame them in order for them to become my own.Hence, I make it a habit to collect words. Then, like bangles and crystals thatpossess psychedelic and prismatic qualities, I hang the words in my mind forillumination. The meaning of my precious words are revealed to me by teachers ==not just those who have a “teaching certificate,” but those who awaken my mind,who ignite my senses, who alter my perception of the world; together, as WaltWhitman says, we “roam in thought over the universe,” seeking to enlightenourselves and one another.The college experience, as I perceive it, in addition to it being the next stop on myjourney for self-enlightenment, is to be the crescendo of my intellectual revolutioncatalyzed by professors who can awaken my mind, ignite my senses, and alter myperception of the world. I hope that my perception of the world will be slightlyturned on its head and that I will be made to defend my beliefs and experience thetrue meaning of intellectual discovery. Thus, my only real expectation for college isto be challenged. I look upon the next four years of my life as an opportunity; I caneither seize the chance and significantly better myself through the accumulation ofnew knowledge or I can merely go through the paces, achieve good grades, butnever really feel the excitement of the words themselves. Obviously, I am lookingfor the former scenario == a place where mental gymnastics are applauded.But mental contortions should not be done just for the sake of doing them; rather,they should be understood and applied to everyday life. For this reason, my questfor self-enlightenment is not limited to the sphere of academics because the collegeexperience itself is not limited to classes – it is the formation of the completeindividual, which means developing both social and academic personalities. I haveconfidence that the people I will meet in college will show me and share with metheir enormous zest for life. This extended family will help me to forge my identity Plagiarism is severely punished!
11. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!as a scholar, as a contributor to my community, and as a member of a family.But neither my family nor my extended family nor my teachers could comprise myentire identity. Rather, I will remain like the first page of a book with the first lineincomplete – a story waiting to be told.ANALYSISLevey’s essay is very much a self-exploration of being an intellect. Her idea ofemphasizing her love of learning is solid and she clearly has a sophisticated grasp ofprose, but the overall package might have done better with a little more understatedelegance. The introduction is intriguing with the use of an unobvious historical factabout customs in the Middle Ages. She successfully introduces herself and herperception of her role in the world. The first two paragraphs are an easy read,except that the use of too many polysyllabic adjectives can become a little bitdistracting. Personal essays that are “show me rather than tell me” tend to be moreconvincing. What mental gymnastics has she experienced before? W here hasshe really pushed for self-growth? The section which describes college as “the nextstop on my journey for self-enlightenment” and “the crescendo of my intellectualrevolution catalyzed by professors who can awaken my mind, ignite my senses, andalter my perception of the world” is a little bit over the top. You don’t have to tell thereader that college is the next step in intellectual growth, the reader should be ableto sense it from the essay itself.“Myung!”“Myung!”--Myung! H. JohThe hot-blooded Spaniard seems to be revealed in the passion and urgency of hisdoubled exclamation points…-----Pico Lyer, “In Praise of the Humble Comma”Are you a member of the Kung! Tribe? is a commonly asked question when peoplesee my signature, which has an exclamation point at the end of it. No, I am not amember of any tribe, nor am I putting the mark at the end of my name to be “cute.”It is not simply a hiccup in my handwriting; it is there for a specific reason. Butbefore I elaborate on why I believe the exclamation point is such an appropriatepunctuation mark for me, let us explore the other marks I might have used:Myung?Although the question mark bears a certain swan-like elegance in its uncertaincurves, it simply does not do the job. While it is true that I am constantly discovering Plagiarism is severely punished!
12. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!new things about myself and changing all the time, I know what I stand for, what myweaknesses and strengths are, and what I would like to get out of life. I know thatI want to major in English, attend graduate school, learn as much as possible fromthose who are wiser than I, and eventually teach at a university. I am headed for acareer in English; there is no question about it.Myung,I admit that I do pause and contemplate decisions before leaping in and rushingahead of myself – spontaneity is perhaps not my strong point. But the comma, withits dragging, drooping tail, does not adequately describe who I am, because I knowthat life will not pause for me; nor do I want it to. Mid the chaos of a hectic schedulethat balances clubs, activities, and AP courses, I always feel the rush of life, and Ilove it. I do not linger over failures; due to my passionate nature, I am crushed bydisappointments, but I move on. No prolonged hesitations or pauses.Myung:I constantly look forward to the surprises that college and my future life promise me;graduation seems like the beginning of a whole new chapter. But the colon, thoughI will not deny its two neat specks a certain professional air, does not do my justice.I know how to live for today, have fun, and enjoy life instead of just waiting for whatthe next chapter may bring. The future is unpredictable. My present life is not simplythe precursor to what may follow.Myung.Perhaps this is the most inaccurate punctuation mark to describe who I am. Thedrab, single eye of the period looks upon an end, a full stop == but with the greateraspects of my education still ahead of me, my life is far from any kind of termination.Myung!However, the exclamation point, with its jaunty vertical slash underscored by aperky little dot, is a happy sort of mark, cheerful, full of spice. Its passions matchmine: whether it be the passion that keeps me furiously attacking my keyboard at4:50 in the morning so that I might perfectly capture a fantastic idea for a story, orthe passion that lends itself to a nearly crazed state of mind in which I tackle petprojects of mine, such as clubs or activities I am especially devoted to.One of my greatest passions, my passion for learning, engenders in me a passion forteaching that I plan to satisfy fully as a professor. I want my students to feel theaching beauty of John Keats’s words, his drawn-out good-bye to life. I want them tofeel the world of difference in Robert Frost’s hushed “the woods are lovely, ark anddeep,” as opposed to his editor’s irreverent “the woods are lovely, dark and deep.” Iwant them to feel the juiciness of Pablo Neruda’s sensually ripe poetry when hedescribes the “wide fruit mouth” of his lover. With the help of my exclamation point,I want to teach people how to rip the poetry off the page and take it out of theclassroom as well. I want them to feel poetry when they see the way the sharp,clean edges of a white house look against a black and rolling sky; I want them to feelit on the roller coaster as it surges forward, up, as the sky becomes the earth andthe ground rushes up, trembling to meet them; I want them to feel it in the neonpuddles that melt in the streets in front of smoky night clubs at midnight. I want Plagiarism is severely punished!
13. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!them to know how to taste life!My exclamation point symbolizes a general zeal for life that I want to share withothers. And I know that is has become as much a part of me as it has my signature.ANALYSISThis essay uses a small punctuation mark to make a big point, loudly and forcefully.It answers the question “who are you?” in a notably creative, exciting, andelucidating manner. Through an unconventional presentation, the author managesto captivate the reader’s attention, while informing him/her of substantiallyrevealing personal qualities. The strong, energized voice that is used delivers botha general, palpable sense of enthusiasm and a glimpse into specific ways that itmanifests in the author’s life.The technical writing in this essay demonstrates skill. Each paragraph expressesone idea with cogency and brevity. A personified punctuation mark is presentedthrough an interesting image and is then related to in light of the author’s character.The final lines of each paragraph then cleverly bring a close to the ideas presentedtherein.Though the addition of an exclamation mark could be seen as gimmicky, the authordemonstrates that she has the energy and thoughtfulness needed to back up herunusual choice, in real life and on the page. It is obviously not a decision she hasmade lightly, not just to make her application stand out, although one gets theimpression that Myung! would stand out in any crowd, regardless of her name. it’sa risky move, but for her, it works.“Myself”“Myself”--by Jamie SmithA teenage girl, JAMIE, walks out on stage alone from stage left. She has brown hairthat falls to her shoulders and deep blue eyes. She is wearing a white blouse andblue jeans and in her right hand is a pair of binoculars. The stage is dark except fora single spotlight following JAMIE across the stage. When she reaches the center,she sits down on the edge of the stage, her feet dangling over, and raises thebinoculars to her eyes. She proceeds to stare at the audience through them for afew seconds, then slowly moves them away from her face.JAMIE: With these binoculars I can see each one of you on an extremely personallevel. (She brings the binoculars to her eyes then down again.) Do any of youaudience members by any chance have your own pair handy? (scanning the Plagiarism is severely punished!
14. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!audience) I was afraid of this. Well, here, why don’t you take mine for a while? (Shejumps off the front of the stage, hands a front row audience member her pair ofbinoculars, then resumes her previous position.) Now look through those and tellme what you see. Be honest now, I could use a good session of constructive criticism.Wait, maybe if I stand up you could get a better look at my true self. (She stands andgracefully turns around.) Make sure you get every angle now. Okay, now tell meeverything you know about me… not much to tell, is there. I mean, you really don’tknow what kind of person is standing up on this stage in front of you blabbering onabout binoculars and constructive criticism. Well, I guess I have my work cut out forme today; I must describe who I am. Fortunately, I did come prepared. I haveprovided myself with a prop – and the influence of a very special person – to assistme throughout one of the most difficult performances of my life, an interpretation ofa piece I call “Myself.” (she steps off the stage and returns to the audience memberin the front row.) Do you mind if I take these back now? (She returns to the stage.)the one prop is, you guessed it, a pair of binoculars. Not just any binoculars, theyare one of the few reminders I have of my great-grandmother, Gran. No, she wasn’tan infamous spy at large during World War 2 nor was she an avid birdwatcher. In1986, when I was six and she was ninety-four we both watched Halley’s Cometmake its celestial appearance through these binoculars. I remember she said thatshe and I were truly blessed because we both were able to see Halley’s Comet twicein our lives. She told me about seeing it out in her backyard in 1909, when she wasthe same age I am now. there we were together, seventy-seven years later,watching the same comet shoot across the same sky. I think of all the things thathave happened during those seventy-seven years, the triumphs and setbacks Granachieved and endured, and it has given me strength to deal with the challenges inmy own life. I imagine how much life had changed since 1909 and wonder how mylife will change by the time I see Halley’s Comet again. What will I become? I will not,like Gran, be a part of the Oklahoma land run or witness the birth of the automobile.I will probably not be quarantined for tuberculosis or listen to the progression of twoworld wars over the radio. But I know I will do and be something. And thedetermination and success of my great-grandmother will help me reach thissomething. She is more than a memory or a story, she has become a part of me: myfamily, my history, my source of knowledge and my source of pride. Her strugglesand achievements are reflected in mine. She is with me when I rise and fall andalways there to make sure my feet are still on the ground. She is with me backstageand with me in the spotlight. She is a woman. She is my great-grandmother. Andthat’s truly what she is – great, grand, everything. Gran. It’s amazing how a simplename can inspire so much.She sits down, returning to her initial position with her feet dangling over the edge.She brings the binoculars to her eyes and looks through them. But instead of lookingat the audience, she is attempting to look beyond them, almost as if there is someinvisible sky behind the rows of seats. She slowly moves the binoculars away fromher face, but her eyes are still fixed on some object off in the distance. Plagiarism is severely punished!
15. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!JAMIE: Only sixty-xi years to go. I’ve got to make them count.ANALYSISWritten in the format of a play script monologue, both in style and overall structure,this essay addresses the concept that it is difficult to evaluate a person from strictlysuperficial appearances. In order to truly know someone, no matter how closely youstudy their outer appearance, it is what’ inside that counts. Emotions, thoughts,dreams, and personal goals are the most important and telling aspects of one’sidentity. The writer does not just theorize about such ideas, but makes a logicalprogression by giving a concrete, vivid example to back up her thesis. Withouthaving to explicitly list interests or personality traits, they style of the essay revealsa good deal about the applicant: she probably enjoys acting or playwriting and ishighly creative and optimistic about life.One of the strongest aspects of the essay is the fact that it is written as a monologue.The creative format is going to stand out from the thousands of other applicationessays that admissions officers must read. The use of binoculars as a linking devicebetween the present and the past is highly effective – it produces an overallcoherence within the essay. The applicant’s use of a very specific moment to frameher love for “Gran” increases the naturalness of the passage. In many cases, essayswritten about family member can sound contrived. The use of a specific event addsto the realism of the applicant’s emotion. The creative use of stage directionsaddresses the adage “show – not tell” head-on. It is an effective way of creating amental picture of the applicant in a reader’s mind. The essay also ends strongly asthe last line clearly identifies that the applicant is ambitious, hard-working, andeager to make something out of her life.The monologue of the essay is effective, but it is important to point out that suchattempts to be overly creative can backfire. This applicant’s familiarity with thisstyle of writing is apparent. If you attempt to write your essay in a nonstandardmanner, make sur.e you have a similar comfort level with the techniques you areusing.哈佛 50 篇essay--2。观点哈佛 50 篇essay第二部分 观点point of view“Introducing Clark Kent and Willy Wonka”“Introducing Clark Kent and Willy Wonka” Plagiarism is severely punished!
16. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!By Daniel G. HabibMy childhood passions oscillated between two poles: St. Catherine’s Park and the67th Street branch of the New York Public Library. Located across Sixty-SeventhStreet from one another, the two crystallized the occupations of my youth. On atypical day, I moved between a close-knit group of friends at the park to largelysolitary stays at the library. My recreational pursuits were communal; myintellectual pursuits were individual. The gulf was pronounced: friends rarely joinedmy mother and me as we meandered among the stacks, and the books I obtainedfrom the library never accompanied me to the basketball courts or the jungle gym.Generally, I slipped away from the park during a lull in the action and returned asstealthily as I had gone, foisting Roald Dahl paperbacks on my mother andscrambling to rejoin my friends in arguing the relative merits of the Hulk andSuperman. I never thought to integrate these passions; they remained firmlysegregated. That Clark Kent and Willy Wonka should never cross paths was a given;the giants existed in separate realms of my life.More than anything else, my Regis career has reversed that assumption. I nowrecognize that my intellectual growth and my peer community are inextricablylinked. I have come to regard those who surround me not simply as a network offriends, but most vitally as components in the ongoing work of education. Iunderstand that an individualized process of learning is intellectually impoverished.The most startling of my educational epiphanies have occurred in the context offellow students. Case in point: my acquaintance with Albert Camus’ absurdistmanifesto, The Stranger. My first reading of the classic, in sixth grade, came in anatomized intellectual climate. As a result, my understanding of Camus’ philosophywas tenuous, so much so that, feeling incapable of defending or even articulatingmy interpretation of the work, I eschewed any discussion and shunned the chancefor error. Satisfied in my ignorance, I disdainfully explained to my inquiring parents,“Oh, it wasn’t much of a murder mystery. You know who kills the Arab all along. Andthat whole mother angle just doesn’t fit.” My second encounter with Camus came inmy junior French elective, this time in the company of an insightful octet ofFrancophones. As we grappled with Camus’ vision of the absurd world andMeursault’s statement of revolt, an understanding emerged from the sundrenchedAlgerian beach. Each member of the class offered his insights for consideration,risking the scrutiny of the group but confident in its intellectual generosity. Therigorous standards of the class, and our common desire for understanding, ledeventually to firmer comprehension. My balanced interpretation of Camus derivedonly from the intensity of discussion, the contributions of my peers, and our mutualwillingness to share our insights.Through my participation in Regis’ Speech and Debate Society, I have continued inmy quest for the acquisition of knowledge through the group. ExtemporaneousSpeaking requires that a speaker provide a thorough analysis of a currentevents/policy proposition, after considering and synthesizing numerous sources.Speakers engage each other on subjects ranging from democratic and free-market Plagiarism is severely punished!
17. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!reforms in Boris Yeltsin’s Russia to the prospects for a Medicare overhaul in theRepublican Congress. Practices involve evaluation by fellow team members andsuccess depends intimately on an accurate common understanding of the issuesLincoln-Douglas Debate, similarly, entails team formulations of argument based onphilosophical principles. We prepare as a team, and I have been privileged to benefitfrom teammates’ sophisticated applications and elucidations of issues as diverse associal contract theory and international ethical mandates.The group character of the team’s intellectual strivings was brought to bear moststrongly at the Harvard Invitational, in the winter of my junior year. Debaters wereasked to evaluate the proposition that “American society is well-served by themaintenance of a separate culture for the deaf.” The evening before the tournamentbegan, sixteen debaters massed in one hotel room at the Howard Johnson’s onMemorial Drive, and, fueled by peanut butter and marshmallow sandwiches andgallons of coffee, we wrangled over the specifics of the unique resolution. Theassimilationist camp suggested that the achievement of group dignity and a privateidentity for the deaf had to occur against the backdrop of a larger public identity. Theseparatism inherent in ASL or deaf schools fatally divorced the group frommeaningful participation in the American democracy. True cultural uniquenessrequired a common frame of reference. Conversely, the deaf separatist partisansmaintained that this decidedly marginalized minority deserved a distinctness ofculture commensurate with the distinctness of its experience. Separation alloweddignity and empowerment.As the hours wore on and the dialectic raged out of control, positions became moreentrenched, but paradoxically a truer comprehension arose. The eloquence andpersuasiveness with which each side advanced its interpretation furthered theexchange. We acknowledged and respected the logic of those with whom wedisagreed, and we reinforced our own convictions by articulating and defendingthem. At 1:30, bedraggled, exhausted, and happily not unanimous in perspective,we regretfully dispersed to our rooms, to sleep off the effects of the session.If I began my educational career as an intellectual monopolist, I have evolved intoa collectivist. On our last day of summer vacation, a dozen Regis students spent anafternoon in the Yankee Stadium bleachers, arguing the possible outcomes of theAmerican League pennant race, then returned to Manhattan’s Central Park to attendthe New York Shakespeare Festival’s arresting and hyper-controversial productionof Troilus and Cressida. As we exited the Delacorte Theater, we reflected on themodernization of Shakespeare’s message. Some praised its transmission ofbleakness and pessimism; others joined critics in attacking its excesses and itsartistic license in manipulating the original. Our consensus on the Bronx Bombers’chances in October was firmer than that on the Greek conquest of Troy, but theessential truth remains. Regis has wonderfully fused the communal and theintellectual phases of my life. Plagiarism is severely punished!
18. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!ANALYSISWriting about an outstanding learning experience is a fairly common approach tothe personal statement. But while many applicants may choose a defining anddistinct moment – winning the state speech tournament or setting the school recordfor the highest GPA –as an experience worth retelling, Habib instead chooses tochronicle the gradual process of intellectual maturation. By choosing this topic,Habib has the opportunity to reflect on his education and recount several formativeexperiences, not just resort to trite descriptions of winning or losing.Habib’s thesis – that one’s communal life and intellectual pursuits are only enhancedwhen fused together – is a somewhat abstract and difficult argument to make, atleast for a high school senior. The fact that Habib makes the argument successfully,through the use of details and concrete examples, makes the essay all the moreimpressive.Still, the essay isn’t perfect. It’s long. The sentences can be complex and a bitconvoluted. The language used, while enough to impress any Kaplan SAT instructor,could be toned down to make the essay more readerfriendly. Habib could haveeasily shortened his statement by using fewer examples of real-life learningexperiences. Or the experiences he shares could have been shortened: theadmissions committee may not need to know the exact arguments andcounter-argument Habib’s Lincoln-Douglas debate team drafted for the Harvardtournament.Overall, Habib’s essay helps distinguish him from other applicants by taking aninteresting approach to a common theme and using concrete supporting arguments.All in all, it is a well-written essay enhanced by personal insights, examples, and theall-important details.“On Diplomacy in Bright Nike Running Tights”“On Diplomacy in Bright Nike Running Tights”By Christopher M. KirchhoffBeepbeep.Beepbeep.Beepbeep. With a series of subtle but relentless beeps, my faithful Timex Ironmanwatch alarm signaled the start of another day, gently ending the pleasant slumber Iso often fail to enjoy. With the touch of a button I silenced the alarm, falling back onmy bed to establish a firmer grasp of where I was and why on earth I had set myalarm for 5:45 A.M. Slowly the outline of my soundly sleeping roommate came intofocus. Beyond his bed was the window. Across the Neva River the view of theHermitage and Winter Palace, illuminated brightly with spotlights, faded in and outof the falling snow. I was definitely still in St. Petersburg, and no, this wasn’t a Plagiarism is severely punished!
19. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!dream. “Oh yes, running,” I remembered. “Must go running.”Temperature??? I dialed the front desk. “Kakoy tempatura pozholsta.” Not fooled bymy Berlitz Russian, the voice responded, “Negative 7 degrees” in crisp English. Ireached for my running tights, glad that meant negative seven degrees Celsius. Itook another look into the darkness outside. Negative seven degrees Fahrenheit andI would not be running. The hotel lobby was empty except for the guard and thewoman at the desk. As I stepped outside, I pressed the start button on my TimexIronman and began jogging.It was a pristine morning. The November wind promptly reminded me just whatwinter meant at 60 degrees north latitude. With the sky awaiting the break of dawn,I started making my way through the newly fallen snow. Soon the sound of mylabored breathing came through the rhythmic swooshing of running shoes dancingthrough the snow. As clouds of breath collected in front of me, I passed slowlythrough them, marking my forward progress with each exhale. Around the corner Ifound a freshly shoveled sidewalk. Following the inviting path, I soon came upon theshoveler, an old man sporting the classic Russian winter outfit: fur cap, long coat,and mittens. Time had left its mark on his wrinkled face and worn clothing. Despitethe falling snow, which accumulated at a far greater pace than the man could keepup with, he continued to shovel relentlessly, barely glancing up as I jogged by him.I respect his perseverance. He was working fiercely in the Russian spirit. And as thewar medals proudly displayed on his coat indicate, he had been doing so for a while.Perhaps this man was one of the few that survived the Nazi siege on Leningrad, aliving reminder of why the United States must remain deeply involved in worldpolitics.As I turned and ran across the bridge leading downtown, the battleship Potemkincame into view. The Potemkin began the second Russian Revolution by training itsguns on the Winter Palace. Still afloat as a working museum, young sailors in fullmilitary dress cleared its decks of snow. While I ran past the ship, a sailor stoppedto wave. As his inquisitive eyes stared into mine, we both recognized each other’syoung age. I waved back, shouting, “Doebroyah ootra,” wishing him a good morning.A few seconds later I glanced back, noticing that the same sailor was still looking atme. I must have been quite a sight in my brightly colored Nike running suit treadingthrough a foot of new snow. “How ironic,” I thought, “here stands a high school agedRussian sailor shoveling snow off a ship which I studied in history class, while eachof us is equally bewildered at the other’s presence.”By the time I reached the Hermitage the sky was clear enough to see my reflectionin the cold black of the Neva River. While running past the Winter Palace, Iquickened my pace, half expecting the Tsarina to step out and stop my progress. Isprinted through Revolution Square, glancing left to see the spot where Tsar Nicolasabdicated and right to see the monument commemorating the defeat of Napoleon.While trodding through historic St. Petersburg, I reflected on the last discussion Ihad with Sasha, my Russian host student. Sasha, top in his class in the “diplomatic”track of study, had talked about his political beliefs for the first time. What begun asa question-and-answer session about life in the United States became a titanic Plagiarism is severely punished!
20. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!struggle between political ideals. Sasha’s tone and seriousness clearly indicated thatour discourse was not for pleasure. He wanted to know about our government andwhat democracy meant for him and his people. Being the first U.S. citizen Sasha hadever met, I felt obligated to represent my country as best I could. Realizing that myresponse could forever shape his impression of democracy in the U.S., theimportance of my mission as a student ambassador became even more apparent.For Russians, democracy remains a new and untrusted method of government.Clearly, Russia is still in a state of change, vulnerable to the forces of the past andskeptical of the future. Sasha, unable to share my faith in the democratic politicalprocess, listened patiently to my explanations. I tried my best to help Sashaconceptualize what the United States is about and just what it means to be anAmerican. For the sake of both countries I hope he accepted my prodemocracyargument. It was conversations like these that brought a new sense of urgency tomy time in Russia. Through the course of my visit, Sasha and I came to know eachother and each other’s people. His dream of serving as a diplomat may very wellmaterialize. Perhaps someday Sasha will be in a position to make decisions thataffect the United States. I hope my impression will in some way affect his judgmentin a positive manner.After jogging up the hotel steps, I pressed the stop button. Not bad for a morningrun I thought. Sixty-four minutes in deep snow, about seven miles’ worth. PressMode button. Time zone one: E.S.T. Columbus, Ohio. It was Saturday night backhome Thinking of home, I remembered the student in my homeroom who cried,“You mean you’re gonna go and meet those Commies? So you think you can changethe world?” Press Mode button.Time zone two: St. Petersburg, Russia, November 4, 1995. greeting the dawn of anew day I thought, “Perhaps! Perhaps in some small way I can change the world,one conversation at a time.”ANALYSISThe month that Christopher Kirchhoff spent in Russia as a “student diplomat”undoubtedly provided him with more than enough experiences to include in anadmissions application. But in his essay “On Diplomacy in Bright Nike RunningTights,” Kirchhoff successfully avoids falling into the trap of many applicants whosestatements are based on once-in-a-lifetime opportunities.Kirchhoff easily could have written something along the lines of, “My time in Russiaprovided me with a rare opportunity to witness an emerging democracy grapplingwith its newfound freedom. Armed with a keen interest in the post-Communistplight, I set forth to learn from my Russian brethren and to teach them about theirAmerican peers.” These statements are not necessarily untrue, but they are also notespecially original. Such an essay would hardly stand out among a stack ofstatements written by students retelling the glory of winning the statedebate/football/academic challenge championship. Plagiarism is severely punished!
21. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!Instead, Kirchhoff tells the admissions committee about the Russia he has come toknow on his early-morning jogs. We learn that he is a disciplined runner, aperceptive observer of human nature, a willing learner of the Russian language.Bright Nike running tights, his Time Ironman, and the rhythmic swooshing of hisrunning shoes are details that his audience will remember. They also provide theperfect segue into the more substantive issues Kirchhoff wants to address in hisessay – the conversations he has had with Russians his age. The reader gets toknow Kirchhoff before we get to know his views on such weightier subjects asdiplomacy and the American role in international relations.While his supposedly verbatim thoughts after waving to the young sailor soundstilted, Kirchhoff’s understated and personal approach throughout the majority ofhis essay makes up for his waxing a bit too eloquent at times. Ideally, it would havebeen nice to hear just as much detail about his conversations with Sasha as we doabout St. Petersburg at 6 A.M. The essay loses the details when it matters most.Also in terms of detail, Kirchhoff makes a slight error in his statement that “thePotemkin began the second Russian Revolution by training its guns on the WinterPalace.” It was in fact that Aurora that fired mostly blank rounds on the palace – thebattleship Potemkin was the scene of a 1905 revolt by sailors in Odessa. Thesemistakes are rather minor since the essay is not particularly centered on the ship.However, let this serve as a valuable lesson: it is important to extensively check allfacts used in your essay.Still, Kirchhoff’s essay works.“Salade Olivier”“Salade Olivier”By Svetlana RukhelmanFor as long as I can remember, there was always the salade Olivier. It consisted ofboiled potatoes, carrots, eggs, bologna and pickles diced into tiny cubes and mixedinto a giant enamel pot together with canned peas and mayonnaise. It wasconsidered a delicacy, and prepared only on special occasions such as birthday anddinner parties. But it was also a ritual, the only component of the first course whichwas never absent from a dinner table, no matter which of our relatives or friendswas throwing the feast.Ironically, the salade Olivier was never my favorite food, though the attitude of mytaste buds to the dish did evolve through the years. In my earliest childhood, Ifavored the compliant potatoes, then began to lean toward the pickles and bologna– that sweet-and-sour, crunchy-and=soft combination that never loses its appeal –and next passed a phase in which the green peas appeared so abhorrent that Iwould spend twenty minutes picking every pea I could find out of my serving. Onlyrecently did I resign myself to the fact that all the ingredients must be consumedsimultaneously for maximum enjoyment as well as for the sake of expediency. Plagiarism is severely punished!
22. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!It may seem odd, then, to be writing in such length in praise of a dish one does notparticularly like. But culinary memories are determined not so much by whether wefound a food tasty, but by the events, people, and atmospheres of which the foodserves as a reminder. In my mind, the very making of the salade has always beenassociated with the joyful bustle that accompanied the celebrations for which thedish was prepared: the unfolding of the dinner table to its full length, the borrowingof chairs from neighbors, the starched white tablecloths, simmering crystalwineglasses, polished silverware, white napkins, delicate porcelain plates of threedifferent sizes stacked one on top of another, the aroma floating from the kitchen allthrough the apartment, my father taking me on special shopping errands, thewonderful dilemma of “what to wear?” and myriad other pleasant deviations fromthe monotony of everyday existence. Though simple in theory, the preparation ofthe salade Olivier was a formidable undertaking which occupied half the morningand all but one of the stove burners. At first it was my responsibility to peel theboiled potatoes == the one task which did not require the use of a knife or otherutensil, and one which I performed lovingly, albeit inefficiently. As I sat at thekitchen table, my five-year-old fingers covered in several layers of potato skin, mymother and I would lead heart-to-heart discussions, whose topics I no longerremember, but of which I never tired.Eventually, my mother introduced me to the Dicing of the Potatoes, and then to theDicing of the Bologna, the Dicing of the Pickles, the Shelling of the Eggs and theStirring in of the Mayonnaise as well. But there was one stage of the process I foundespecially mesmerizing. It was the Dicing of the Eggs, carried out one hard-boiledegg at a time with the help of an egg-cutter. Nothing was more pleasing to the eyethan the sight of those seven wire-like blades, arranged like prison bars, slicingthrough the smooth, soft ellipsoid.Today, we still make the salade Olivier on some formal occasions, and, as before, Isometimes participate. And every time I see the eggslicer or smell the pickles, I amreminded of our Kiev apartment, of those much-anticipated birthday parties, of thejoy I felt as I helped my mother cook: of all the things which made my childhood ahappy one.ANALYSISThis essay seeks to introduce us to the author via a description of the author’schildhood conditions and family experiences as well as experiences from theauthor’s cultural heritage. The salade Olivier, a delicacy in both Ukranian andRussian diets, serves as the central organizational motif for this description.The essay’s power comes from its amazing descriptive qualities. The reader is givena vivid and detailed picture of both the salade and much of the author’s childhood.The essay also entices the reader by deliberately omitting a description of thesalade’s cultural origins until the very end of the text. This technique forces the Plagiarism is severely punished!
23. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!reader to move through the essay with puzzling questions about the salade’s originsand the reader’s unfamiliarity with such a dish, motivating the reader to remainengrossed in the work and seek out the answers of interest. Only in the end arethings revealed, and even then the reader may not be fully satisfied.Despite the essay’s great descriptive power, however, the reader is given fewspecific details about the author or the Unkrainian culture that serves as thebackdrop for the author’s childhood. Including more such details could dramaticallyincrease the essay’s strength, especially given the unfamiliarity of most readerswith the culture that stands at the core of the author’s heritage.“The Tug of War”“The Tug of War”I stand between two men. The caramel-skinned man on my left holds his cane as ifthe world is waiting for his entrance. On my right the taller vanilla-skinned manstands erect as if he must carry the world. Each man reaches for my hand andbefore long, a tug-of-war ensues between them. Each tries to pull me over the lineof agreement but my body stays in the middle. During this struggle I hear theirvoices saying:“Cast down your bucket where you are!”“The problem of the twentieth century is the problem of the color line!”“It is at the bottom we must begin, not at the top!”“The only way we can fully be men is with the acquisition of social equality andhigher education!”Their voices blur. My torso stretches wider and wider. My arms grow in length aseach man pulls and pulls. Finally, I yell, “I can’t take it anymore!”This is the scene that plays in my head when I contemplate the philosophies ofBooker T. Washington and W. E. B. Du Bois, two foes attempting to answer aquestion that never seems to go away: “How shall the African-American race beuplifted?” their answers represented the right and lift of the social spectrum in theearly 1900s. I attempted to present their views in the IB Extended Essay. While Iwrote the paper something inside of me felt the need to agree with and choose onephilosophy over the other. I couldn’t. So this struggle developed.In the beginning, Washington looked as if he had already lost the tug-of-war. WhenI first encountered the ideas of Washington I wanted to grab him and ask him,“What was going through your head?” The former-slave-turned-leader-of-a-race,Washington advocated industrial education over higher education, When he said,“cast down your bucket,” he meant relinquishing social equality in the name ofeconomic prosperity. When I read this, one word popped into my mind, “Uncle Tom.”I felt that Washington had betrayed his race when he renounced social equality.Wasn’t that a right every man wanted?After examining Washington, examining Du Bois was like jumping into a hot bath Plagiarism is severely punished!
24. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!after sliding headfirst through a field of cow dung. The intellectual’s ideas of highereducation and social equality sat well with my middle-class African-Americanstomach. Du Bois represents everything I grew up admiring. Du Bois was the radicalwho attended Harvard University. His idea of a “talented tenth” to lead theAfrican-American race starkly resembles the black middle class today. I had nochoice but to agree with Du Bois.So enamored with Du Bois was I that I forgot about Washington’s practical ideas ofself-help and economic power. I witnessed Washington’s ideas acted out in everydaylife. I bought my “black” hair products from and Asian owner in the middle of theghetto and the corner store owned by Iranians supplied me with chips and candy.These facts made me feel that maybe African-Americans had shoved Washingtontoo far back into the closet. At this juncture, Washington began to give Du Boiscompetition in a formerly one-sided war. Economic prosperity means power; a racewith economic power cannot be denied social equality, right?In order to resolve the dilemma presented by this tug-of-war, I looked at theingredients of my life. Washington appealed to the part of me that wanted to forgetabout social equality. That part of me wanted to live as it came and focus only onself-advancement. Du Bois appealed to the part of me that felt no man was a manwithout social equality. Either way, both appealed to my life as an African-American.The fact that two early twentieth-century advocates affected a ‘90sAfrican-American girl shows that their message was not lost in the passage of time.Neither man won the tug-of-war. Maybe this tug-of—war in my head was not meantto be won because their philosophies influenced me equally. Washington providedthe practical ingredients for social advancement while Du Bois provided theintellectual ingredients for such advancement. African-Americans must evaluateboth philosophies and determine how both views can facilitate the advancement ofthe race. I still stand between two men but now I embrace them equally.ANALYSISThe question of racial identity can be an enormous one for many people and oftenmakes a great college essay. Writing an essay about this part of your developmentis insightful into your person and your views. Admissions officers are trying to get toa portrait of who you are and what you value, and little is more revealing than astruggle for racial identity. Freelon chose to write about two black leaders to showwhat her racial identity means to her. Her essay also shows a keen interest in howhistory can be applied to her life – an interest that would appeal to admissionsofficers trying to pick thoughtful individuals.Freelon’s essay is well written and well organized. She moves smoothly from heropening thoughts into the body of the essay and devotes equal time to eachphilosophy. She also shows clear examples of why she originally liked Du Bois andwhy she changed her mind about Washington. Her essay show important elements Plagiarism is severely punished!
25. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!of human nature – she admits that as a “middle-class African-American,” she has abias, and she is also wrong from time to time.The main danger in this essay is oversimplification. It’s difficult to condense thearguments of two leaders into a few paragraphs, and Freelon doesn’t present thetotal view of their philosophies. She also assumes a familiarity on the part of theadmissions officers with issues of racial identity, which may or may not be true.Overall, however, Freelon’s essay is an excellent example of how a personal identitystruggle can reveal a lot about the person inside.“Thoughts Behind a Steam-Coated Door”By Neha MahajanTill taught by pain Men really know not what good water’s worth. ------Lord ByronA light gauze of steam coats the transparent door of my shower. The temperatureknob is turned as far as it can go, and hot drops of water penetrate my skin like tinybullets. The rhythm of water dancing on the floor creates a blanket of soothingsound that envelops me, muffling the chaotic noises of our thin-walled house.Tension in my back that I didn’t even know existed oozes out of my pores intostreams of water cascading in glistening paths down my body. I breathe in a mist ofherbal scented shampoo and liquid Dove soap, a welcome change from thesemi-arid air of Colorado. In the shower I am alone. No younger siblings bargingunannounced into my room, no friends interrupting me with the shrill ring of thetelephone, no parents nagging me about finishing college essays.The ceramic tiles that line my bathroom wall have the perfect coefficient ofabsorption for repeated reflections of sound waves to create the wonderfulreverberation that makes my shower an acoustic dream. The two by four stall istransformed into Carnegie Hall as Neha Mahajan, world-renowned musician, singsher heart out into a shampoo bottle microphone. I lose myself in the hauntingmelisma of an aalaap, the free singing of improved melodies in classical Indianmusic. I perfect arrangements for a capella singing, practice choreography forExcalibur, and improvise songs that I will later strum on my guitar.Sometimes I sit in the shower and cry, my salty tears mingling with the clear dropsupon my face until I can no longer tell them apart. I have cried with the despair ofmy friend and mentor in the Rape Crisis Team when she lost her sister in a viciouscase of domestic abuse, cried with the realization of the urgency of my work. I havecried with the inevitable tears after watching Dead Poet’s Society for the seventhtime. I have cried with the sheer frustration of my inability to convince a friend thatmy religious beliefs and viewpoints are as valid as hers. Within these glass walls Ican cry, and my tears are washed away by the stinging hot water of the shower. Plagiarism is severely punished!
26. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!The water that falls from my gleaming brass showerhead is no ordinary tap water. Itis infused with a mysterious power able to activate my neurons. My English teacherswould be amazed if they ever discovered how many of my compositions originatedin the bathroom. I have rarely had a case of writer’s block that a long, hot showercouldn’t cure. This daily ritual is a chance for me to let my mind go free, to catch andreflect over any thoughts that drift through my head before they vanish like theephemeral flashes of fireflies. I stand with my eyes closed, water running throughmy dripping hair, and try to derive the full meaning conveyed in chapter six of myfavorite book, Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance. I’ll be lathering shampoointo the mass of tangles that is my hair as I work on a synaesthesia for the next twolines of a poem, or the conditioner will be slowly soaking through when I experiencean Archimedean high, as a hard-to-grasp physics concept presented earlier in theday suddenly reveals itself to me. Now if only they had let me take that AP Calculustest in the shower…The sparkles of falling water mesmerize me into reflection. Thoughts tumbling insomersaults soften into a dewy mellowness. Do these drops of water carry a seed ofconsciousness within them? As I watch the water winking with the reflected light ofthe bathroom, it appears to glow in the fulfillment of its karma. Then, for a splitsecond, all thoughts cease to exist and time stands still in a moment of perfectsilence and calm like the mirror surface of a placid lake.I know I have a tendency to deplete the house supply of hot water, much to theannoyance of the rest of my family. I know I should heed my mother’s continualwarnings of the disastrous state of my skin after years of these long showers; as itis, I go through two bottles of lotion a month to cure my post-shower “prune”syndrome. But my shower is too important to me. It is a small pocket of time awayform the frantic deadline and countless places to be and things to do. It is a chanceto reflect, and enjoy—a bit of welcome friction to slow down a hectic day. The waterflows into a swirling spiral down the drain beneath my feet. It cleanses not only mybody, but my mind and soul, leaving the bare essence that is me.AnalysisThis essay illustrates how something as ordinary as a hot shower can be usedauspiciously to reveal anything of the author’s choosing. Mahajan could havefocused on the academic subjects or extracurriculars she mentions in her essay,such as physics or the Rape Crisis Team, but instead she chooses a daily ritualcommon to us all. Though everyone can relate to taking a shower, doubtless fewshower in quite the same way Mahajan does or find it to be such an intellectually andemotionally stirring experience. The intimacy of the act sets an appropriate stagefor her personal description of unraveling from life’s stresses by singing into ashampoo bottle microphone. Plagiarism is severely punished!
27. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!There is no signal, clear focus to the essay, but this accurately reflects the showerexperience itself—“to catch and relect over any thoughts that drift through my headbefore they vanish.” Mahajan touches on schoolwork, classical Indian music andcontemplation about her favorite book, all with humorous flair, and she even goesinto emotionally revealing descriptions of crying in the shower. Unfortunately, shedwells on crying for an entire paragraph, and reader cannot help but wonderwhether she could survive without her shower to cleanse her “mind and soul.”Ultimately, that Mahajan derives literally so much inspiration and relief from theshower seems rather hard to believe. The notion that she could have done better onher AP Calculus test had she been allowed to take it in the shower is amusing, butdoesn’t seem to add much beyond the suggestion stand that vague “hard-to-graspphysics concept” seems excessive. Already she distinctly conveys her interest inscience through her language—“the perfect coefficient of absorption for repeatedreflections of sound waves” –and a supposedly subtle reaffirmation of this interestseems unnecessary.Mahajan’s vivid language and unusual description are principle qualities of thisessay. She deftly avoids the temptation of resorting to clichés, and most everythingis entirely unpredictable. A relatively minor point is that her economy of languagecould be improved, as otherwise fluid sentences are occasionally overdone with anexcess of adjectives and adverbs. Nonetheless, Mahajan conveys her talent forcreative writing, and this carries her essay for beyong the lesser issues mentionedearlier. And, of course, her distinctive showers theme helps this exhibition of talentstand out.哈佛 50 篇essay--3。难忘的时刻Sensibility-- by Amanda DavisThe putrid stench of rotten salmon wafts through the boardwalk, permeating theFive Star Café with a fishy odor. I stand, chopping red peppers for tomorrow’s sobasalad, in the back of the minuscule kitchen. Adam, a pretty boy with cropped hair,stands beside me, relating tales of snowboarding in Sweden while slicing provolonecheese. Tourists walk by the café, some peering in through the windows, othersinterested only in fish swimming upstream – clicks of cameras capture the endlessstruggle for survival. It is 3:00 in the afternoon, the lunch rush has died down, theevening rush has not yet started. I relax in the rhythmic trance of the downwardmotion of the knife, as I watch the red peppers fall into precise slices. The dooropens. A customer.Adam looks toward me. “Your turn.”I nod, pull myself away from the peppers, and turn to the register. A man stands,looking at me. His eyes, hidden under tangled gray hair, catch mine, and my eyesdrop, down to his arms. Spider lines of old tattoos stand out, words and pictures and Plagiarism is severely punished!
28. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!symbols sketched on thin, almost emaciated arms. I know I am staring. I look up.“Can I help you?” I brightly ask.He looks at me warily. “A cup of coffee.”Adam hands him a cup and goes back to slicing.“That will be one dollar, sir.” He fumbles in his pocket, and pulls out a wrinkled dollarbill. He extends his hand, then – suddenly – pulls back. His face changes, and heleans toward me, casting a frightened glance at the cash register.“Is that – is that --” he stumbles over his words. “Is that alive?”I look to the machine. Its common gray exterior rests on the counter, the greennumerals displaying the amount owed. I think of my first days at the Five Star, whenI was sure that it was alive – a nefarious machine manipulating the costs to causemy humiliation. As the days proceeded, we slowly gained a trust for one another,and its once evil demeanor had changed – to that of an ordinary machine. I think ofthe world – controlled by machines, the cars and computers and clocks – would they,could they, rise up against us? The espresso machine is behind me, it could attack –the hot water spurting forth, blinding me as the cash register falls and knocks meonto the floor as I – No, of course not.Sensibility wins again.“No, sir. It’s just a machine,” I explain. He eyes me, untrusting of my words, in needof reassurance. “It takes money.” I take his dollar, and show him how, with a pushof a button, I can place the money inside. He takes his coffee with both hands, andsips it.“A machine…” he quietly repeats.The cash register sits, silent on the counter.ANALYSISIn both subject matter and style, “Sensibility” is a breath of fresh air. Imaginereading stacks of essays about mundane topics, and then coming upon one aboutred peppers, provolone cheese and a cash register – how could it not stand out?Rather than describing a life-altering experience or an influential relationship, thewriter reveals herself and her talents indirectly by bringing us into a captivatingscene.With the skills of a creative writer, the author uses crisp detail to make the Five StarCafé spring to life and to place us in the seaside kitchen. Even if all the essay doesis grab our attention and force us to remember its author, this essay is a success.But “Sensibility” has other strengths. The dialogue with the emaciated man raisesprovocative questions about modern life. How do we relate to the machines aroundus? How does “sensibility” change in this new environment? And how do machinesaffect our relations with people of different classes and backgrounds? The essaydoes not pretend to answer these questions, but in raising them it reveals its authorto possess an impressive degree of sophistication and, at bottom, an interestingmind. Plagiarism is severely punished!
29. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!All the same, “Sensibility” is not without its faults. For one, the scene seems sosurreal that we are led to wonder whether this is a work of fiction. And admissionsessay will be stronger the more we can trust that we are hearing the author’s honest,personal voice; the fictional quality here jeopardizes that. Moreover, although theauthor proves that she is thoughtful and talented and has a vivid imagination, manyquestions are left unanswered. Does the author want to be a writer? How would hercreativity translate into a contribution to the community? We would need to rely onthe rest of her application to fill in those gaps. Still, on the whole, “Sensibility” issuccessful both because of and in spite of its riskiness.A Memorable DayA Memorable Day-- by Ayana Elizabeth JohnsonWalking through meadow and forest and mud, helping and being helped acrossstreams, looking at lakes, stars and trees, smelling pines and horses, and generallytraveling through a half-seen world, all happened before four A.M. The ten of usstopped near a waterfall to absorb the beauty of the rising sun. The sky was on firebefore the embers died out and only the blues and yellows remained. I saw thebeams of the sun slide down from the sky and into a meadow, and felt my happinessslide down my cheeks. To the sky I sang my thanks.As our journey to the Grand Pyramid continued, I met new flowers. At the base of itspeak, I looked up with excitement, and then out for stability. Intimidated and yetdetermined, I started to crawl up the mountain. I found geodes, and that big rocksaren’t always stable. I wasn’t alone, but I was climbing by myself. At the top, thefour of us who had continued from the base were greeted by the beauty of needlepeaks and mountain ranges and miles of a clear view in every direction, without thebitterly cold winds and the fear of heights I had expected would be there too. Therewas simply nature and sunshine and friendship, and the elation they bring.Balloons were blown up and attached to me. People danced around me and shouted,and a smile I couldn’t control burst forth.On the way down, instead of tears of joy that had accompanied the sunrise, therewere songs of joy, and I thought. I realized that the rewards and thrills andmemories are in the journey and not in reaching the destination. I had believed thisbefore and even said it out loud, but this was different. I looked at everything alongthe way. I stopped and rested and attempted to etch each different view into mymemory. The hackneyed phrase of “enjoying every step along the way” wassomething I lived, and as a result I felt richer than I had ever been. I promisedmyself that this lesson I would never forget, but as I was descending from thehighest point to which I’d ever journeyed, my thoughts too returned to a morepragmatic level. I remembered that each journey in my life wouldn’t be as Plagiarism is severely punished!
30. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!challenging or exciting or rewarding as this one had been; nevertheless, it is theflowers and geodes and smiles and balloons that make the journey worthwhile.I had only been singing for myself and for the mountains, but everyone had heardme, and, when I reached the bottom, I was greeted with congratulations andlaughter – after all, I did have balloons tied to me.And the journey continued. The waterfall we had only really heard before day-breakwas now visible, and I was convinced to jump in and make it tangible too. I plungedmy head under its torrential flow, only to receive a headache from its coldness as areward for my boldness. I removed my-then-numbered-self from the water and waslacing up my boots when it began to hail. I had been wishing that snow would fall onthis August day, but hail was close enough. The few of us who had braved thewaterfall then ran to catch the group in the forest before the imminentthunderstorm arrived.I saw in the daylight what I had (or rather hadn’t) seen in the moonlight. Thestreams we had helped each other cross in the dark were no more than rivuletsthrough a field in the light. The mysterious woods were turned serene by the rays ofthe sun, and I thought of the great chasm that often exists between appearance andreality. The mud puddles that had been obstacles were now only another detail ofthe landscape, and I thought about things that are a challenge to me which othersfind simple. The meadow where I had tripped while trying to star-gaze and walk,became a place to cloud – gaze and wonder at the storm, and I thought of the manyways different people can appreciate the same thing.The humbling thunder approached. It growled. Suddenly, the frighteningly beautifulcompanion of the thunder struck a hill not so far ahead of us. A friend, the only otherperson who had seen it, and I ran screaming and laughing into the trees, but knewwe would be all right because we were together.A trek by moonlight, a sky on fire, leaking eyes, 13,851feet up, balloons, geodes,songs, icy waterfalls, hail and lightning were my seventeenth birthday.ANAYLYSISThis easy is effective because it carries the metaphor of the journey of life from theclimb up the mountain all the way through. The essay is well organized andstructured, designed to represent the reconstruction of the author’s exciting day,starting with her initial reaction to the scenery to her elation of finishing at the end.Each paragraph, though varied in length, tells a part of the journey and a change inthe author’s growing perspective on life.The author uses a lot of active description, which the reader can easily relate to andalmost experience a part of her journey. Phrases such as “only to receive aheadache from its coldness as a reward for my boldness,” speak poignantly becausethe reader can almost feel the sting of the dip in the waterfall. The comparisonbetween daylight and moonlight also works well because it allows the writer a Plagiarism is severely punished!
31. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!chance to demonstrate her ability to describe contrast.The reader may be slightly disoriented by the lack of context for the story, as we arenot told where the author is or why she is climbing a mountain. However, throughthe carefully controlled description the author reveals her reflective nature andpersonal realization as she ascends and descends the mountain, hence, showing theparallel physical and emotional progression. Her concluding sentence, though notparticularly poignant, serves as a strong summary of a well-written piece.A night UnforgottenBy Frederick AntwiAn hour before the commencement of the personality contest, I deposited my bagcarefully in a corner of the changing room. From my vantage point, I could see themuscular seniors comparing their lovely three-piece suits and musing about whichone of them would win the title. A bony, stuttering junior with no suit and no newshoes, I swallowed hard and resolved to give the pageant my best shot. Since thefirst round of the program was a parade in traditional wear, I nervously pulled outmy kente, draped the beautifully woven red and yellow fabric around my thin frame,pinned on my “contestant number five” badge and hurried to take my place in line.Wishing hopelessly that my mother was among the spectators and not working insome hospital in a foreign country, I stepped out onto the polished wooden stage.Immediately, one thousand two hundred curious eyes bore into me. My cheekstwitched violently, my throat constricted and my knees turned to jelly. I fought forcontrol. Bending my arms slightly at the elbows, I strutted across the stage in theusual fashion of an Asante monarch and mercifully made it back to the changingroom without mishap. The crowd erupted into a frenzied cheer. As I returned for the“casual wear” round, something magical happened.It was singular emotion that no words can describe. It began as an aching,beautifully tenderness in the pit of my stomach, gradually bubbling into my chest,filling me with warmth and radiance, melting away all the tension. Slowly, iteffervesced into my mouth, onto my tongue and into words. As I spoke to the crowdof my pastimes and passions, words of such silky texture poured out from my soulwith unparalleled candor and cadence. The voice that issued from my lips was atonce richer, deeper, stronger than I had ever produced. It was as though an innerself, a core essence, had broken free and taken control. Severed from reality, Ifloated through the remainder of that remarkable evening.One hour later, the baritone of the presenter rang out into the cool night air. “Mr. GISPersonality 1993, selected on the basis of confidence, charisma, cultural reflection, Plagiarism is severely punished!
32. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!style, eloquence, wit and originality, is Contestant number…”“Five! One! Five! Five!” roared the electrified crowd.My heart pounded furiously. My breathing reduced to shallow gasps.“Contestant number five!” exploded the presenter in confirmation.For a few sacred moments, time stopped. My ears screamed, and my lower jaw,defying the grip of my facial muscles, dropped like a draw-bridge. Then I rushedforward, bear-hugged the presenter and embraced everyone else I could lay myhands on! Amidst the tumult, the Manager of KLM Airlines mounted the stage,presenting me with a meter-long Accra-Amsterdam-London return ticket. As I stoodbrandishing my sky-blue cardboard ticket, posing shamelessly for the cameras andgrinning sheepishly at the throng, a pang of regret shot through me. If only mymother could have been in that crowd to witness and indeed be a part of this mostpoignant of all memories.ANALYSIS“ The unusual experience” is a staple of college entrance essays, but in this case theexperience is truly unusual-a personality contest for men. It’s also interesting to seeAntwi’s transformation from shy to superstar. Antwi concentrates on a fixed event intime and uses it to show the spectrum of his personality-shy, confident, excited,lonely- in an amusing and entertaining way.It’s no wonder Antwi won the contest. He’s a great storyteller. He has an acute senseof detail-“one thousand and two hundred curious eyes,” “the fashion of an Asantemonarch”-and is good at heightening drama. The essay is also upbeat and fun toread.It would have been nice to know what Antwi said in the third paragraph instead ofsimply reading about the “unparalleled candor and cadence” with which he spoke.Also, Antwi does not explain the what, where, or why of the contest, which are allimportant to know. Overall, however, his personality shines through as stellar.BananaBy Nathan W. Hill Plagiarism is severely punished!
33. Essays are for reference only. Do NOT copy or imitate anything!I was hungry and the sun impaled me on its searing ray. I wore a wool coat, blackwith red cotton lining. It had served me well in the misty foothills of the Himalayas,where His Holiness, the Dalai Lama, gave his blessing. The coat had recentlyreturned from a long absence. I wore it despite the heat.The humid weather and the final wilting blossoms of late September conspired to fillmy head with snot. The mighty hammer, Mjollnir, pounded his lament between myears.I walked down to The Barn, our cafeteria, but it wouldn’t open again until three.Then, I remembered Clint, my junior year English teacher, and walked back to theUpper School. Clint always kept a few overripe bananas in the fruit bowl with thepast due vocab tests. Laura, who shared the office, complained of the fetid smell ofrotten fruit and that Clint made grunting noises as he worked hunched in his bow tie,over a mound of disheveled papers. On occasion, he stretched his arm towardsLaura’s desk and asked her, with a bruised banana dangling from his hand, “Wouldyou like a banana, Laura?” With a crinkled nose, Laura always politely replied, “No,thank you, Clint,” and watched in disgust as he wolfed it down.The heavy wooden door to Clint’s office stood propped open because of the heat.Inside, a small electric fan sat on top of the computer, it made an obnoxious noisebetween the sound of buzzing bees and chomping teeth. A tiny strip of paper dartedbefore the spinning blades. Clint looked up from his work and asked with nasalcondescension, “Can I help you, Nate?”I responded phlegmatically, “May I have a banana?” the sweat dripping off the endof my nose.With a mixture of pity and reproach, he raised his arm to point at the wooden bowlon top of the gray file cabinet. I lifted three vocab tests away.I grabbed it, soft and brown. Its sweet aroma distracted me from the throbbing ofmy head. I held the banana in my right hand, and moved my left hand to its stem,ready to divest my prey.A thin sticky liquid started seeping through my hand. Not expecting a banana to leakI dropped it, and heard a low thud, followed by splattering.The banana burst open; its mushy yellow guts flew. A dripping peel remained of mysearch for happiness. Plagiarism is severely punished!
